And then he doubled down on that
just before the election took place
and then talked about it again last week.
Really extraordinary, the circumstances.
Remember, Hillary Clinton
Secretary Clinton, just recently came out
and said the Jim Comey letters
and what he said
was one of the reasons
she lost the election.
Now we're saying that he's been
fired for basically those decisions.
I wanna read a letter
from President Trump
released just moments ago.
"Dear Director Comey, I have
received the attached letters
from the Attorney General
the Deputy Attorney General
of the United States
recommending your dismissal
as the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
I have accepted their recommendation
and you are hereby terminated
and removed from office
effective immediately.
While I greatly appreciate
you informing me
on three separate occasions
that I am not under investigation
I nevertheless concur with the judgment
of the Department of Justice
that you are not able
to effectively lead the Bureau.
It is essential that we find
new leadership for the FBI..."
This is my partner...
partner, Wally Taylor.
Hey, how are you?
Hey.
How are you?
- Good. How you doing?
- Good.
How's your day today?
It's pretty good.
Just got some groceries.
All right.
Let's show you who we are.
Okay, well, the reason we're here today
is that we have a search warrant
for your house.
Okay.
All right. Do you know
what this might be about?
I have no idea.
Okay.
This is about possible mishandling
of classified information.
Oh, my goodness. Okay.
So, what we've got is,
again, got a warrant.
And I'm happy to show it to you.
Kind of go over what's going on.
Kind of get your side of it.
And of course, you're completely
voluntary to talk to me.
We can talk here, or...
Our office is about five minutes away.
If you want to...
if you'd rather talk there
then we can do either one.
It makes no difference to me.
- Okay.
- Do you have any pets?
- I do. I have two pets.
- Because you've been gone awhile
so do we maybe need to let them out
and use the bathroom and stuff like that?
I... do.
Would you mind if I at least get
some perishables into the fridge?
And we can do that too
but what we're gonna have to do is...
Do you live by yourself?
Yes.
Okay. What we're gonna
have to do is
we're gonna have to go
into the house first
make sure it's safe.
We have a search warrant,
so we're... we're going to.
- Absolutely.
- Okay. And...
What we'll do is we'll keep you
out here until we do that
and once we secure it, we'll...
then we can kind of go from there, okay?
Of course.
So, is your dog friendly?
Okay, well...
So... she doesn't...
- like men.
- Okay.
- So...
- So that's a problem.
Yeah.
- She may come towards you
- Okay.
But she's never bitten anybody.
She's not aggressive.
She's just got, you know,
a really good growl going.
- Okay.
- She'll probably hide under my desk.
Do you have a leash or something...
- I have a leash.
- Okay.
I can get her leashed up.
So what we might wanna do is
maybe let you go in there with her.
You're not to touch anything else,
you're not to do anything else
but get the dog and bring it out here.
Are we cool?
- Of course. I understand.
- Because otherwise
if we have a problem,
we're not gonna do that.
I can move her straight to the backyard.
- Okay.
House key?
House key.
We also have a warrant
to search the car, too.
Do you have a cellphone?
And we'll take that
and we'll kind of go from there, okay?
But like he said,
we're completely voluntary
completely up to you on...
But, you know, I think
maybe it'd be worth your time
to listen at least for a little bit.
- Definitely here...
- Okay?
And we can kind of figure out
what's going on.
- To comply.
- Okay.
Her leash is two feet inside the door
where I left it this morning.
I can move her straight to the backyard.
Are there any weapons
in the car or in the house?
In the house, yes.
What do you have?
I have an AR-15.
Is it pink?
It's pink.
Okay.
How'd you know?
I have a Glock 9 under the bed.
- And...
- Okay.
A 15-gauge.
You sound like my house.
Okay. We're good then.
All right. Just don't make
any movements for those
and then we're...
- Yeah.
I mean, we're all cool.
- I mean, kind of obvious.
- Yeah.
You can put... There's a little
fenced-in area where you can put her.
Yes, yes, and you won't even
take your eyes off me.
And we'll get water and stuff like that.
And this other guy is with us as well.
And we'll probably have a few more
people showing up here directly.
Again, doesn't like men.
Starting to see a trend here.
Yeah, you all can come on out.
We found her.
- What's her name?
- Mickey.
- Hey, Mickey.
- Hey, there.
She doesn't know what's going on, though.
There you go.
You don't have any weapons
or anything on you, do you?
- No.
- None in the car?
In the car, no.
Hey.
- Hang on. Hang on just a second.
- Can I close the door for my cat?
All right.
'Cause that's all I care about right now.
Okay.
So the only thing in there now
and that's alive is the cat?
Yes.
There's not a person?
No person.
- They on their way?
- Yeah, they're pulling up.
Why don't we...
You wanna wait out here
with her for a minute?
And then Joe and I will walk through.
Again, just to explain,
we have a search warrant. It's...
- I understand.
- It's en route.
It's all right.
They're just making sure...
Just checking to make sure
there's nobody else in there.
Nothing "surprise".
Nothing surprise us,
or anything like that.
- Yup.
- So.
I wanna make this as easy
as possible for you guys.
Okay, likewise.
So hopefully, explain things,
get to figure this all out
and wrap it up.
How... how old is she?
We don't know. She's one of those.
Oh, yeah, yeah, my...
one of my dogs was a rescue.
And when I got him, he wouldn't...
I was the only guy who could touch him.
Anybody else came in the house,
especially male
he'd pee all over the place.
But I could touch him, and it was fine.
So whoever had him before was a real...
real piece of work.
Yeah, she was left in a kennel
and neglected her whole life.
Why don't we...
Let's get the groceries,
throw them in the fridge real quick.
Then we'll bring you back out here, okay?
Is that...
No, that's it for the perishables.
Should be.
The neighbors.
All right, if you could
just step over. Just there.
Yup, just stop right there.
Look up here.
There's a cat in the house.
In the bed, or it's on the bed.
- It's on the bed?
- Or it was on the bed.
It'll probably go
under the bed at some point.
And the dog is
in the backyard in the fence.
Does...
Does she need water?
She'll be fine.
She's been inside all day with her water.
Okay.
All righty.
All right. So would you like
to talk here or talk...
talk at the office?
We can go ahead and talk here.
You wanna talk here?
- Sure.
- Okay.
Let's...
I'm trying to think if we have
any private place
there in the house that...
Do you have anything there in the house
that we can kind of sit that's away?
Away?
There's one bedroom that's empty.
I don't...
I don't really like to go in there.
Other than...
I guess I don't really have anything
else other than that back room.
That back room?
Okay. And it's completely empty?
Yeah. You'll go in there. There's...
There's one dog kennel cage.
Other than that, I don't use it.
Okay. All right.
You said you don't like to go in there?
Oh, gosh, no, it's just weird.
It's just creepy.
It's like an addition
to the back of the house
behind the kitchen,
and it's always dirty.
Okay. We can talk back there
if you're fine going back there.
- It's...
- Yeah, we can go back there.
Okay. All right.
There's a back room there
- that we can...
- Kind of like the laundry?
- That she'd like to talk in.
- Yeah, that'll work.
It's too hot out here for...
Oh, I can make a pit stop
and take out the AC if you need that.
Well, there's...
They've gotta do their thing
for a minute and then we can go in.
We can go in.
Oh, get the password.
What's the... How do you open this?
Just hang on.
What kind, is it the iPhone?
How long you lived in Augusta?
I was out here October 2015
to April 2016.
TDY, and then moved back
this past December.
What... what do you think of it?
Well, I willingly moved
back here as a civilian
so I guess it must be all right.
"Willingly."
You say that begrudgingly.
Yeah. I mean...
Originally, my big plan
is to deploy as a Pashto linguist
and be in Baghram for a bit.
But then they hired me
out here for Farsi, so...
Wait, you're Farsi and Pashto?
Farsi, Dari, Pashto.
Wow. That's...
that's impressive.
I can barely...
I'm barely able to speak English.
English is hard.
But yeah, I noticed that with...
Especially here in Augusta
it's great for families
but single, it's kind of tough.
Like, I can't imagine coming back.
What's the...
Do you have a password or anything?
- No password.
- How do we do it?
Show me how to do it,
or tell me how to do it.
- Swipe that?
- Yeah.
No security?
No security.
You don't have a password
or anything that...
No password, nothing.
Just anytime it locks
you just press the side there
until you see the circle
and just slide up a bit.
Okay, so it's...
Did you already show her the warrant?
No, I haven't.
I was going to. We're gonna...
We're gonna sit down and show it to her.
What made you get out of the Air Force?
I... I wanted to deploy.
I mean, I learned Pashto for a reason.
And those opportunities
aren't in the Air Force right now.
You'd figure that with that language
- you could just... raise your hand
- Right?
And they'd go, "Yeah, go."
Yeah, no, where I was in Maryland
they only had one billet per year
for Afghanistan
and it was all always airborne.
Not even language.
So I imagine people
were just crawling for it.
Yeah, and I don't have
my airborne physical, so...
Is your dog okay?
Does it need anything?
She's fine.
- She?
- Yeah. She's...
If you can tell, we're all dog people.
Yeah, I can... I can tell.
Is she destructive at all when she...
when you leave her alone?
Yeah. She's just a nervous chewer.
Where do you CrossFit at?
I'm at SEC.
I used to be on Enterprise Court
off of Bobby Jones,
and then we moved to Wheeler.
But my friend's re-opening the UnderBox.
You... you gonna go off?
Yeah. I'm just... I'm just waiting
for her gym to open to...
to jump ship.
I did it for, like, six months,
and I hurt myself.
Just every single day was just pain.
- Yeah.
- So, I don't know.
Guess I'm just too old and broken.
Yeah, I always say that
I don't do CrossFit.
- I do competitive power lifting.
- Okay.
And then I do CrossFit
when it's convenient.
No.
What's your...
Power lifting?
What's your preference on?
What's your favorite stuff?
I'm just all upper body.
So, bench.
It's kind of sad.
I tested my lifts this week
because I have a competition
on June 24th.
And my max bench is 180.
And then my max back squat...
I have... I have a back injury,
so my max back squat is 195.
- But I don't...
- Still, still not shabby.
No, it should not be that close.
How'd you hurt your back?
Doing power cleans.
My pelvis wasn't rotating,
so I separated that joint.
- Sounds painful.
- Yeah.
I did... I was doing box jumps,
and this hand just...
I was doing it by myself,
hit the box and, I mean, I thought
I just fractured every bone in the body.
In the hand.
And I went to... I had to go
to the doctor to get the X-ray.
They said, "So how'd you do this?"
"CrossFit."
Four times they asked me.
Said, "No, I didn't get in a fight,
it was CrossFit."
I thought I could see the bone
in my shin from that one.
- Wow, what was that?
- Box jumps.
Just missed the box.
That's a moment you really hope,
"Did anybody see that?
I really hope nobody saw that."
So I do have to ask, just...
however this goes, I don't wanna
make any assumptions, but...
is this gonna be a thing where, like
I brought my phone into the building
and I don't see that phone
for three weeks or...
- We'll go over the warrant itself...
- We have a warrant for the phone.
Yeah, no, and I don't...
I don't wanna make any assumptions
or anything like that, just...
I'm teaching yoga tomorrow
and my phone has the music on it.
Okay.
I mean, there are
bigger problems in the world
so I can make do, I guess.
Yeah. And, we'll...
we'll talk about that once we sit down.
Is there a... Do you have
just a few chairs, like
kitchen table chairs that we can pull
into that... that back room?
Or are we gonna be sitting on the floor?
No.
Yeah, I...
If you wanna sit,
I'm not too big on furniture.
Would it be too much to ask if I can
get the cat on a leash and tied up?
Just...
I just don't wanna be, like,
asking someone in the FBI
to keep the front door closed
if you guys are doing a search.
I don't see an issue.
Where is the cat right now?
- In the bedroom.
- On the bed.
- In the bed.
- Okay.
- Still in the bed?
- Yeah, I think so.
Where... Just safety's sake,
where are the...
- There's your weapon and the...
- The weapon.
It's right by the little table
with the lamp
right under the bed.
- Your cat's under there.
- He's under the bed.
Or she's under the bed.
- The AR's in the case in here?
- Yes.
Where's the other gun?
It's behind it, more against
the wall in the black case.
Can you get your cat?
- Do you wanna get your cat?
- Can you...
Get your cat.
All right, she's good.
Okay.
All right.
You wanna go back here?
Yeah, you can go ahead
and go back in there.
This room is dirty. I'm so sorry.
All righty.
So, again, my name is Justin.
You probably don't remember
any idea of who I am. So...
Justin Garrick with the FBI.
This is Wally. He's my partner.
So what I wanna do
is kind of explain that
you know, we do have a search warrant.
You're welcome to see the warrant,
you're welcome to read the warrant
and then explain a little bit about it.
Now, if you're willing to talk to me...
like to kind of go through
just how this started and, you know
give your... your side of it.
We'll figure out what's going on here.
Does that sound...
sound good to you?
Okay.
Okay?
Yes.
Now, I'm gonna take...
Right here...
I'm gonna take notes.
Just random basis.
You got to take notes.
Do you need water or anything?
Are you thirsty?
You're what...
If you need water, shout it out.
Okay. I'll let you know. Thanks.
- Are you thirsty?
- Not right now.
Okay. All right.
If you need to use the restroom,
any of that, let me know.
It's not a big deal. Okay?
Okay. So, currently, you're employed
as a contract linguist
- with Pluribus?
- Yes.
I'm sorry, what languages you said?
- I heard...
- Farsi, Dari, Pashto.
Okay. Any other?
No.
I'm kidding. I think that's enough.
That's really impressive.
And you live here, sorry, by yourself?
- Yes.
- Okay.
This is really hard
without a table and chairs.
I'm so sorry.
It's... You don't have to apol...
It's your house.
If you do feel like, you know,
you wanna sit or anything
we'll sit, okay?
If you sit on the floor,
I'll sit on the floor, I don't care.
Okay.
And I'm serious about that.
If you wanna sit, please,
I'll sit down too.
Okay.
So, again, we have a warrant.
And it's... Do you...
Would you like to see it?
- Yes, please.
- Okay.
That just gave us the authority
to search the residence
the car, and then you.
"125 pounds." You guys flatter me.
Sorry. I have a sense of humor.
- It was on your driver's license.
- That's right.
Okay, well, I lied.
Don't we all?
Attachment B just explains the property
that we're authorized
to search for and seize.
Any questions about any of that?
- No.
- Okay.
We'll just leave a copy of that for you.
Yeah, we'll leave a copy.
So, all this stems
from a report that we received
that you had mishandled
classified information.
My question is
does that ring
any bells to you whatsoever?
It does now.
When I started working at White Law, I...
Do you guys know PKI passwords?
So I had a printed out email
and I put it in a folder,
I didn't have a desk yet
so I took it with me.
And passed through security,
and went to Starbucks
and when I came back,
they searched through it.
And unfortunately, the email
I had printed out was classified.
And they filed a report for that.
Okay. All right.
And what's your work role there
at White Law?
Currently, I translate
graphics documents. And...
- Yeah, that's all I do.
- Okay.
From Farsi to English.
So you're assigned to a specific
section, I guess, or a group?
Yes. It's the Iranian
Aerospace Forces Office.
Have you been assigned there
your entire time there?
Yes, since February.
Okay.
Is there any other issues
or anything you're aware of
that might explain
why that report was generated?
Like, maybe this, maybe that?
No.
No? Okay.
So you currently hold
Top Secret-SCI clearance?
Yes.
How long have you had that?
I would say since January 2013.
- While you were in the Air Force?
- Yes.
So you kept it through...
Through the...
Did you...
When did you process
out of the Air Force?
I processed out of the Air Force...
December...
December 14, 2016.
And up until that time,
I was looking for contracts
to try and get my clearance renewed.
So your clearance
just kind of passed through.
It passed through, yeah.
Okay. All right.
So, again, as far as you're aware
you haven't committed
any security violations
or anything you're aware of,
other than this... this PKI thing?
Other than the PKI thing, no.
I mean...
I do print out documents at work
because it's easier for me
to translate them by hand.
But then I put them in the box.
And then I don't get it mixed up
with, like, my classified notes
because they...
I use pretty paper.
So I don't take out white paper.
Got it.
And I know it sounds really dumb,
but it's just...
how I can do it now.
And after that stupid
PKI thing, I was like
"No more white paper
out of the building."
You... said you printed out stuff?
- Yeah. I printed out...
- Is there...
Why did that come to mind
as far as security?
I guess...
I'm just trying to think about...
actual paper.
I can't imagine any other way
to get things
out of the building, I guess.
I mean, I'm old-fashioned.
So, thinking about that
and just with this PKI thing
just making sure I don't accidentally
have anything in my lunchbox
or anything like that.
- Nothing got out of the building?
- Nothing.
You didn't carry anything
out of the building?
No, and I definitely let everything
get searched all the time.
So I haven't had any other accidents.
Do you work on any other matters?
No.
Okay.
Have you ever inadvertently,
either by accident
or intentionally, or whatever
gone outside your need-to-know on items?
Outside my need-to-know on items?
I do, from time to time,
look at a website called "My Online."
- It's drone feeds.
- Okay.
I used to work a drone mission,
so it's all Afghan stuff, but...
other than that, just...
reading basic news articles on NSA Net.
But I've never accessed
anything that's outside of...
Okay. Have you ever
gone searching for stuff
that's not related
to your... your work role?
No.
Okay.
You've kind of already answered this,
but outside of the PKI
have you ever taken anything
outside of the NSA facility?
- No.
- No?
Have you downloaded anything?
Emailed anything out?
- No.
- No? Okay.
Have you ever discussed
any classified material
with anybody who wouldn't have the
prior US government authorization?
Who wouldn't have the clearance
or anything like that?
and the need to know?
No.
No?
Okay.
Not many people ask
about Iranian aerospace.
So, I lucked out.
So you never discussed work
or anything classified with anybody?
Nuh-uh.
How's the neighborhood?
I did not look at a map
when I signed the lease
but I am well armed.
You seem to be.
What's your plans?
You gonna stay in the house
or you gonna move somewhere else, or...
Did you sign a lease, I guess?
I signed a lease, and I would
only break it if I get a deployment.
Yeah.
Have you had any issues here,
since you moved here?
- I did, yeah.
- What happened?
I was coming home
from a concert in Atlanta.
It was 3.00am, and...
there was a guy standing on the street
and I wanted to make sure
that he didn't see me go
from, like, my car to my door.
And I thought I timed it out well.
But then I was standing
at the sink getting water
and then someone starts
knocking at the door...
Do you have a toothpick?
It's 3.00am
and my keys and my phone were by the door
'cause that's where I dropped them,
because I had to pee.
So... very glad to have
a Glock 9 in the back.
Oh, yeah.
- Did not sleep.
- I'm sure.
Anything other than that?
Other than that...
There's this...
People always ask
if you want your lawn done
and someone came and mowed my lawn
while I was in Belize last week.
So... not really cool with that.
I imagine not.
They're probably gonna
come by and knock on the door
- and ask for compensation.
- Yeah.
I mean, if it's the same guy
I paid last time
he's, like, this little old man,
like, in his eighties
so I won't really be mad.
- But...
- When...
When did you go to Belize?
I left on Saturday morning,
and flew back Monday morning.
Last weekend.
That was a quick trip to Belize.
It was a quick trip.
What'd you go down there for?
I wanted to see the Mayan pyramids.
Okay.
- So, yeah.
- That's pretty cool.
I didn't have any leave
so I was tired of waiting
for the stars to align
- so I just said...
- Sure.
"Got three days, let's do it."
- That's cool.
- Fair enough.
Spur of the moment.
That's pretty cool.
Did you go down there by yourself or...
Yeah. By myself.
Okay. Did you do any tours
or anything down there?
I did.
The first day, I went on,
like, an Altun Ha tour.
That was one of the first sites.
And then the second day we did...
we took a boat on a river
down to the Lemani Pyramids
and then we came back, and...
Yeah.
Okay.
Saw a bunch of monkeys.
So you're positive
you've never printed anything out
that was outside of your work role?
I'm trying to think.
Because there's... there's...
There's NSA Pulse
and from time to time,
I do print out articles from that
and use as scratch paper.
That sounds really dumb.
Now that I'm thinking about it
the things that I did were really dumb.
But then I always threw it out
in the burn bin.
Okay.
What kind of articles
from Pulse do you pull out?
Usually reference material about, like...
Just making sure, like
so many references that
I keep having to relook up...
So that's probably fraud,
waste, and abuse right there.
We're not worried about
fraud, waste, and abuse.
Okay.
No.
I use a lot of papers.
But nothing outside of Iranian stuff
or anything other than that.
And never outside of the building.
Okay.
Reality
what if I said that I have
the information to suggest
that you did print out stuff
that was outside of that scope?
I mean, I would...
I would try to remember.
Okay.
What if I said that
you printed out information
related to reports on...
Reality...
we obviously know a lot more than
what we're telling you at this point.
And I think... I think
you know a lot more
than what you're telling us
at this point.
I don't want you to go down
the wrong road.
I think you need to stop
and think about what you're saying
and what you're doing.
I think it's an opportunity
to maybe tell the truth. Because...
telling a... telling a lie
to an FBI agent
is not gonna be the right thing.
Okay?
You know, and again
we're here voluntarily.
You're talking voluntarily.
I'm not asking you,
forcing you to do anything.
But think.
That's what I'm asking you
to do, is think.
So...
think about what he just asked you
and let... you know.
There was one I printed out
because I wanted to read it.
Can you remember what day that was?
I might mess up the dates, but...
late... late March, early...
- early April?
- And what was it?
It was an NSA Pulse article about...
Okay.
And...
I did print that one out.
Okay.
Why...
Why did you print that one out?
'Cause I wanted to read it.
The way I downloaded it,
it was hard to read so...
It looked like a piece of history,
you know?
And I wanted it on my desk
for, like, a day.
Did you... How did you find it?
So if you go on Pulse, there's a...
At the top right, they have
a tab that says "Articles."
And I scroll through those from...
I don't know if you guys saw the one
about the miniature ponies.
- But...
- I missed that one.
Yeah, no, that was number one
for, like, a year.
So, obviously, I go to check
to see if there's any other gems.
And... and then there was that one,
and I saw it on the news
and I was just...
Like, yeah, I wanted to read it.
So, yeah.
- Okay.
- What did you do with the article?
I kept it on my desk
for, like, three days.
I'm gonna be honest...
I only read, like, half of it.
It was the stupidest thing ever.
And then... and then
I burn bagged it in the box
with the slat next to the fridge.
Okay.
Did you print out any other articles?
No, no, I just... only the one.
Okay, talking around it.
You're pretty sure it was
late April, early March?
Think about... try to remember, like
- details in your personal life.
- I know.
I... I'm trying. I... I don't...
I don't... I don't remember.
I got in a fight with the boyfriend
that week.
God, when did I break up with him?
I don't remember.
God, I'm... I'm really
blanking on what week
what the weekend was like before that.
- I'm so sorry.
- It's okay.
I'm trying. God.
Yeah, mid-April is all I'm thinking.
Okay. All right.
What if I tell you that
I know that you searched for
and printed out a document
on the 9th of May?
9th of May.
Let me see.
The CrossFit competition was on the 12th.
God, was it really that late?
I mean, I can't argue that.
If you know, you know.
- Okay.
- I mean, obviously, you know.
I mean, I just... I can't imagine.
I mean, I guess
we're already June already.
It's been a really bad month for me.
Do you remember
what you did to get to that article?
Other than seeing it
on the front page or linking it...
Do you remember what search terms
you might have put in?
Probably...
I'm not very sophisticated.
Okay. So...
you did print out a document.
An intelligence report.
You do recall that?
Yeah, I do remember now, yeah.
Okay. What did you do
with that report?
I kept it on my desk for three days
and I thought it was interesting,
and I would read it
and then I said, "No, I should
not have this on my desk"
and so I put it in the burn bag.
Where's the burn bag?
Okay...
It's in the break room.
It's the white box with the little
slat on it, one over from the fridge.
So you just slide it in there,
and then...
- And it's taken care of?
- Yeah.
Okay, Reality.
Are you sure that's what you did with it?
Yes.
You're positive?
- Yes.
- You didn't take it
- out of the building?
- No.
You didn't take it out of
the building and give it to anybody?
- No.
- You didn't send it?
- You didn't send it to anyone?
No.
Reality, can you guess how many people
might have printed out that article?
- No.
- It's not many.
That article has made it
outside of NSA, okay?
Obviously, because we're here.
And the most likely candidate,
by far and away
is you.
So... now, I... don't think...
I don't think you're, you know
a big bad master spy or anything, okay?
I don't. I don't think that.
I think that I've looked at the evidence
and it's compelling.
Now, I'm not sure why you did it
and I'm curious as to that
but I think you might've been angry
over everything
that's going on politics-wise.
Because you can't turn on...
You can't turn on the TV
without getting pissed off.
Or at least I can't.
I think you might've just made a mistake.
Now, why I'm here
and why I wanna talk to you
is to figure out
the why behind this, okay?
So, I ask you again.
Did you take it out and send it?
I didn't.
I put it in the burn bag.
I mean, I'm trying to deploy.
I'm not trying to be
a whistleblower. That's crazy.
So how would you think that
a document would end up getting out?
I mean...
Let's be honest, there's...
there's little to no security
on documents.
I... I mean, nobody pats you down.
We talk about it all the time at work.
Like, oh, you have to show our lunch.
Oh, "You eat so healthy."
Like, every day, all the time,
and people just... this...
I mean, we have a building
full of geniuses, right?
And, I mean, I guess, I'm just...
I'm talking and I'm nervous
but I didn't...
I didn't do anything with it.
I mean, I'm trying to go somewhere else.
I'm trying to increase my clearance.
I mean... and I know it was sensitive
and I thought it would be cool
to have on my desk
- for a couple of days.
- Okay. But do you remember...
You said you remember
putting it in the burn bag?
- Yeah.
- Just sliding it in there?
- Okay.
- I remember that. Folded it in half.
Folded in half?
Yeah.
Because it didn't...
Yeah, I folded it in half.
What if I tell you that that document
folded in half
made its way outside of NSA?
I don't... I don't know that.
It made its way out in an envelope,
post-marked Augusta, Georgia.
See, things are starting
to get a little specific.
- Yeah.
- It made its way
to an online news source
that you subscribe to.
Getting really specific.
So, I'm gonna ask you again.
What is very, very...
What's very compelling...
I'd like to know the reason, because I...
I don't think you make
a habit out of this.
At all. At all.
I think you just...
messed up.
Now, I'm not sure why you did it
and I'd like to hear from you on that.
But the what and the how
would you agree, it looks awfully bad?
It looks really bad, yeah.
If you're angry about what's going on...
if there's anything that...
Look, you've had a good career.
You have.
If there's something that just
pushed you over the edge on this
now is the perfect time.
This is a podium.
You know...
like...
like he said...
I don't think we're coming in here to say
you're some big bad mastermind,
prolific spy kind of thing.
I think what we both think is that
maybe you made a mistake.
Maybe you weren't thinking for a minute.
Maybe you got angry, like he said.
I mean, that's what I'm hoping.
If that... that's the case
then that makes us feel a little better
knowing we don't have
a real serious problem here.
You know, that's something
that concerns us, too
that this isn't an ongoing problem.
But we need to figure it out.
And if it was a mistake
let's deal with it.
Is this...
Is this a room?
Is that a room?
So how'd you get it out of the office?
Folded in half in my pantyhose.
Okay.
And what did you do with it?
I put it in an envelope and sent it to...
Anybody specifically there?
I don't think I put a name.
I just put...
Had you communicated with them
prior to you doing that once?
No. I wasn't trying to be
a Snowden or anything.
And that's what...
I don't think you were either.
I really don't, but...
I think you made a mistake.
But I don't think either one of us
think you're trying to be Snowden.
No, it was just the one document
- and like you said, because...
- Right.
I've had a really hard time at work.
I've filed formal complaints
about them having Fox News on
all the time.
And... and, like, for God's sake,
put Al Jazeera on
or a slideshow of people's pets.
Like, I've tried everything
to get that changed.
That would probably be a good thing.
Unfortunately, it doesn't matter
which side you're watching,
they're all pretty bad.
But...
Where did you mail it from?
A mailbox on Baston Road.
Okay.
It's the shopping center with the bank
and the Earth Fare grocery store.
Okay. I know
where you're talking about.
At the intersection of Baston Road
and Fury's Ferry.
- Fury's Ferry. Okay.
- I never could say that right.
Fury's Ferry.
And it was just a mailbox sitting out
in the middle of the parking lot?
Just a metal box.
- Okay.
Do you remember what day it was?
What day of the week was the 9th?
Let's see...
We'll check.
Do you need some water or something?
I'd like some water
once we figure out
what day of the week it was.
- Okay.
- Let's see, I wanna say it was...
If I can figure out this crazy phone...
- I wanna say it was a Tuesday.
- Tuesday.
Is there something significant
about the 9th
- in other ways?
- No.
It was probably
just the first day I saw it.
If... It might've been
the 11th or the 12th.
If I subbed yoga on the night of the 11th
then the yoga studio is right there.
So it would've been a Thursday or Friday?
- Thursday or Friday.
- Okay.
What yoga studio?
It's called, "Oh, Yeah Yoga".
So, you said maybe
you mailed it Thursday or Friday?
Okay.
How did you know to...
mail it to...
So you wanted to be able to publish it?
Yeah.
Did you send it anywhere else?
- No.
- No?
No other publications
you've shown it to or given it to?
No.
Is there gonna be anything here
that we're gonna be surprised to find?
No, I never took the document
out of my car.
Is there anything on your phone
or your computer?
On my phone, you might...
I don't know if I deleted it
but you guys are probably gonna
be able to see it anyway, but...
there will be a screenshot
of the address.
- Okay.
You mentioned you want some water?
Yeah.
- Yeah, why don't we...
- No, I'll make it.
I'm just gonna get somebody out here.
Hey, can I have somebody in here, please?
Do you want a bottle of water?
Do you have a filter in the fridge,
or do you just want tap water?
Tap water. There's a mason jar
or glass next to the sink.
Can I get one person
to just stand here, please
so I can go to the kitchen?
Do you guys...
You're not gonna fit in there anymore.
She's not gonna fit in there anymore.
She still under the bed?
The cat?
Is the cat still under the bed?
She's a big girl.
- Oh, yeah. We're trying.
- How old is she?
She's three years now.
- But girl likes to eat.
- Oh, yeah.
She likes carbs.
She's got a little slim fit on her.
When she came out, I was like...
Yeah, she will snatch bread
right out of my mouth, like...
"Girl, you do not need those."
Water.
Thanks.
So other than the screenshot on the phone
there shouldn't be anything else?
And there should be
nothing on the laptop?
Nothing on the laptop.
I do have a TOR browser.
Which probably looks bad, but...
Okay.
What do you use a TOR browser for?
Have you had any contact
with anyone from...
The Intercept?
Have you tried to reach out?
Like you said, I saw the article
and I couldn't believe it wasn't a thing.
It made you mad.
It made me very mad.
The theory that Russian interference
helped him win the election.
Russia/Cybersecurity.
Main Intelligence Directorate
cyber actors [redacted]
target US companies and local
US government officials
using voter registration-themed emails
spoof election-related products
and services
research absentee ballot email addresses
August to November 2016.
If anybody could show me
that the Russians got into
any voting machine anywhere in America
- Nobody is saying...
- and hacked it.
Well, that's how you
hack an election, Bill.
No, no, that's one way
you can hack an election.
Russian General Staff
Main Intelligence Directorate actors
[redacted] executed
cyber espionage operations
against a named US company in August 2016
evidently to obtain information
on elections-related
software and hardware solutions
according to information that
became available in April 2017.
- What kind of attack...
- You're jumping to conclusions.
No, there's no jump...
I'm simply telling you...
There's not one shred of evidence
- tying Russia to a hacking...
- Okay.
Given the content of the malicious email
it was likely that the threat actor
was targeting officials
involved in the management of
voter-registration systems.
It is unknown whether
the aforementioned spear-phishing
deployment successfully compromised
the intended victims
and what potential data could have
been accessed by the cyber actor.
It was right there.
And I just... I didn't care
about myself at that point.
When did you realize the technical
capabilities of that article?
Sources and methods?
Sources and methods
are valuable to adversaries.
Yeah.
Okay. With that in mind
why did you make the decision
to send it anyway?
Honestly, I just figured that
whatever we were using
had already been compromised.
And that this report would
just be like one drop in a bucket.
Is there anything else you wanna tell me?
Say?
Talk about why?
No, it was just...
Yeah, just that day...
that week...
It was just too much to sit back
and watch it and think..
"Why do I have this job
if I'm going to be helpless?"
It was just...
Sorry.
It was just the final straw.
Was there something that just...
just did it?
Because you don't seem
the type to do this.
I'm not.
I wanna go out with our Special Forces.
I mean, that's why
I got out of the Air Force. I...
That's why...
that's why I'm here in Augusta.
I was trying to get my clearance back
so I could get deployments.
It just was at a time I wasn't
applying for deployments. I...
I had seven, eight months
left of a job that
didn't mean anything to me,
because it's Iran
and I'm a Pashto linguist.
Like, what am I doing translating Farsi?
I just...
I felt hopeless.
And just seeing that information
be contested back and forth...
back and forth in the public domain
with everything else that just
keeps getting released
and everything that
keeps getting leaked, like
why can't this get out there?
Why can't this be public?
Were you surprised to see us today?
Yeah. Actually, I thought
you were here to ask about the house,
because it's still for lease online.
Because you didn't seem surprised
when we pulled up.
Oh, God, that's just 'cause
I have a resting bitch face.
And you guys turned around, and...
then, "FBI!" I was like,
"What is going on," you know?
And then you showed
your badge right up, and...
I submitted my security packet yesterday
for my clearance on E-QIP.
So I thought...
that was what's it for.
I was like, "Why are you guys
questioning me for my own clearance?"
- But...
- Okay.
That's not gonna happen.
Anything else you can think of?
What we have to do is
we have to do the search.
Of course.
You said...
Sorry. I have a sinus infection
- so I sound...
- It's okay.
I sound awful.
Well, this is the best room
to be in it with.
Do you remember the site from memory?
If you scroll down to the bottom,
there's "Contact"
but it's not as obvious as you think
because it's closer.
How long did it take you to find it?
About probably
three minutes of scrolling, which...
felt like an eternity sitting in my car.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
You said the document stayed in your car.
- Where did you get the envelope?
The box of envelopes is...
It's on the back seat in the car
behind the driver's seat. I...
I had a bunch of forms
I had to mail out last December.
So it's been in my car since December.
Okay.
And the stamps?
Stamps.
I think I have about
one or two left in there
but I keep stamps in the glove box
in case I have to mail anything out,
like bills and stuff.
Okay. In your glove box?
In the glove box, yeah.
All right.
I'm trying to think
if I have anything else.
The search,
the guys will continue the search.
They'll search the vehicle and the house
and they'll photograph everything.
You... The search team leader
is gonna sit down with you
and go through...
Do you have any questions for me?
So many.
This sounds really bad.
Am I going to jail tonight?
I don't know how to answer that yet.
- Okay.
- What was the question?
If she's going to jail tonight.
Said I don't have
the answer to that quite yet.
Of course, the search is still going on.
In the case that...
I don't have memorized...
The woman, her name is Cathy
she works at the Augusta Humane Society.
- Okay.
- She can come and pick up the dog
in the case that I'm not here tonight.
Well, let's don't...
- Okay.
- Yeah.
Let's don't put the cart
before the horse right now.
Okay.
Okay?
I just...
- My only concern is getting her
- I understand.
And then maybe one more phone call
to get the cat covered.
We'll figure that out.
If it comes to that...
well, we'll figure that out.
And I don't have the answer
to that yet. And I'm going to...
We'll... we'll cross that bridge
when we get to it, okay?
Okay.
What else?
You turn it off?
It's still recording.
Would you like to sit down somewhere?
- I'm fine.
- You're fine?
Yeah.
Reality.
Hello. This is a prepaid collect call
from an inmate at Lincoln County Jail
in Lincolnton, Georgia.
This call is subject to recording
and monitoring.
To accept charges, press 1.
As soon as Mom and Gary get to Georgia
they're gonna pick up Mina at least.
And Mickey will stay back
with the shelter
but they're safe in the house.
Everyone was really worried about them
when they searched my house.
Bunch of dog people.
Yeah, I mean,
that was the one thing, like
when the FBI was interrogating me
they were just like, "Look,
we have everything. We're just..."
We just wanna know why."
You know what I mean?
They didn't care about anything else
they were just straight-up
curious to know why.
They say Reality Winner
has two faces.
One, an Air Force veteran
a loving daughter
and a yoga instructor.
The other, a person
who had taken a keen interest
in the Middle East
with suspicious motives.
When asked by the FBI
Winner stated that
she knew the intelligence report
revealed sources and methods
used by the US intelligence agencies
and she knew that compromising
those sources and methods
could be valuable to our adversaries
and damage the United States.
She claimed to hate America.
When asked, "You don't really
hate America, right?"
She responded
"I mean, yeah, I do.
It's literally the worst thing
to happen on the planet."
She was a quintessential example
of an insider threat.
She's obviously
an intemperate political activist.
How did she get a security clearance?
Well, you could ask the same question
about a lot of people
working in government right now.
I keep telling myself to act more
like I think I did something wrong.
We are more concerned with the leaks
than we are with the fact that
the Russians attacked our democracy
and that the president's campaign
may have participated in it.
- They didn't attack our democracy.
- They did.
If you look at this,
it's sort of like The Intercept
knowingly or unknowingly
outed their own source.
I mean, it made no sense.
Like, is it that...
Are you that inept?
- Sloppy, irresponsible, what is it?
- Both.
As a journalist, we count on people
to leak us information
that's vital for our democracy
to function.
Knowing what happened
with the Russian hack
was a very important thing.
Now, she did violate
the rules of her employment
but this penalty that she's gotten
five years, is exceedingly long
one of the longest penalties.
And it's obviously there to create a...
you know, a chilling effect, right?
So that other people don't do this
and we stay in the dark.
You have one minute remaining
on your call.
You have one minute left.
If you could just
get that message to Lane.
Yeah, I will.
All right.
I really appreciate it, Brittany.
Yeah, of course.
- I'm just sorry that...
- Oh, one more name, Don Z.
- Last name starts with a Z.
- Okay.
Tell him I'm probably
not gonna talk to him again
but that I'm...
I'm doing push-ups like crazy,
and that I'm gonna miss him.
Just let him know that.
Obviously been recording.
I'm going to...
- What's up?
- Going to end the recording.
- And stop the interview.
- I think so.
So this is at five...
let's call it 5.17pm
ceasing recording on June third.